---
title: "#50 TODO"
subtitle: "Update #50"
date: "2025-03-30"
tags: ["update"]
lang: "en"
---

It's been a bit more than a week that we are back in China — now in Changsha. This time around, we knew how to prepare for this country that works completely differently from its neighbors. The preparation mainly consisted in pre-installing things on our phones[^1]:

- An eSIM with data (the only reliable way to circumvent the Great Firewall)
- _AliPay_ and _WeChat_ for payments (because China _really_ doesn't like cash or international bank cards)
- _Didi_ for taxis (actually included in the "superapp" _AliPay_)
- _Amap_ (because _Google Maps_ doesn't work — but ugh, what a terrible app)
- _Papago_ (because _Google Translate_ doesn't work on wifi)
- _Microsoft Bing_ (because it's the only search engine that's China-approved)
- _Pleko_ (to recognize and learn Chinese characters — what a great app!)
- _xxx_ (to learn the basics of Mandarin)

Sure, the Great Firewall does ban Wikipedia, most news outlets, and have-you-ever-tried-using-Bing-its-the-worst-really, BUT there are some good sides to it.

Having most of my search results hidden, I discovered some "new" refreshing websites. They are actually not new at all, but are buried under so many layers of SEO-websites, that I normally would have never found them. I won't keep them to myself, here they are:

## Hyperlinks

- [Jango](https://www.jango.com): a free music streaming service that offers unlimited listening with no ads

## Media diet

- Mãn (book by Kim Thúy, 2014): cool book structure, chapters built almost as a stream of thought, true story about resilience, family, food, and love
- Ne Zha[^2] (movie by Yu Yang, 2019): very popular animated movie in China, Pixar-like movie with values that are quite different from the American equivalents

## Miscellaneous

Until next time --ENDCHAR--

[^1]: To make things even harder, _Google Play_ (being part of the Google family) is also banned. As we didn't have unlimited data, we needed to pre-install everything we could think of.
[^2]: In Chinese: 哪吒.
